MOD Creation Instructions

A language MOD consists of 4 types of files.
We have prepared template files in Japanese and English for you. Please download and take a look at these files.
All JSON and scenario files must be saved in UTF-8 encoding.

File List
1. ModFont.ttf
	Font used in the MOD.
	This font will be used for rendering UI and scenario text when MOD is selected.
	TTF or OTF files are supported. You need to rename the extension of an otf file to ttf.
	Please prepare a redistributable font that covers all translated text.
	Make sure you do not violate font license when you redistribute it.
2. ui_text.json
	Definitions of UI text.
	Elements are divided into different groups, with their ID on the left side and text on the right side.
	Please translate text on the right side accordingly.
	"%02d" of "inputmemo" field represents a number.
	"basic_preview_text" field holds sample text of message window as seen on configuration screen.
	Please translate all 3 lines in the array.
3. chapter_title.json
	Titles of each chapter.
	Please translate these chapter titles on the right side accordingly.
	You can see chapter titles on save data.
4. Scenario files (.ms files)
	These are the scenario files.
	In other words, these are the actually plot shown in the game.
	Please take a note of the "Cautions" part below while translating them.
	Do not change files names.
	If lines do not match, text will misalign in the game.
	Text may not be displayed entirely if a certain line becomes too long.

About word wrapping/line breaking
English words will not be wrapped to the next line by default. However, languages with a different alphabet may come across the word-wrap issue.
In this case, please edit "message" in "wordwrap_latin" located in "ui_text.json".
The template file has "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ0123456789'-" as an example, you can replace it with letters you need.

Cautions on translating scenario files

"@" marks a character tag. The character's name follows an "@". If there is a space or other special character in the name, you need to surround it with double quote ".
"//" marks a single-line comment which will be ignored. You do not need to translate these lines.
"#" marks a label. This is used internally, but you do not need to translate them.
The message window can display around 240 characters in single-language mode. However, we recommend limiting each message to 170 characters to support two-language display.
When three or more characters speak at the same time, some lines are cut to fit in the message window.

Special characters
Some symbols are recognized as markers. They need to be escaped if you want to use them as text.
You can escape them by adding a "\" (back slash) before them.
The following symbols are treated as special characters.
[]|《》{}>:=

